#summary Index page of the documentation

This is a page where all other wiki pages of this project are listed and briefly described.

<wiki:toc>

----
== Overview ==
  * [http://code.google.com/p/asfermi/ Home]: Brief introduction to the project, current development state and Other related information.
  * [Plan]: This page deacribes the planned stages of the project. It also includes a timeline of the short-term objectives.
  * [Updates]: I know a few people are checking this site regularly, so I created this page so that you can know if anything has happened.

----
== Stage 1, Assembler ==
=== Using asfermi ===
  * [Features]: A list of features that are supported/to be supported. The meaning of various state numbers are also explained here.
  * [Usage]: A page describing the command-line usage of asfermi.
  * [SourceFormat]: A specification of the format of source code that can be assembled.
  * [CodeExample]: A page with some examples showing how the input file of asfermi would look like.
  * [Instructions]: A list of instructions that are supported/ to be supported.
  * [Directives]: A list of directives that are supported/to be supported.

=== Development related ===
  * [Design]: This page describes the framework under which the assembler is written.
  * [PTXpriority]: The probing of various PTX instruction and their corresponding opcode will be done in stages. This page lists the priority of each PTX instruction in the probing process.
  * [Utilities] A page describing the utilities made for the purpose of this project.

=== Fermi ISA ===
  * [Opcode]: A page describing the opcode format of the Fermi opcode.
  * [nanb]: A page with instruction names and their corresponding identifier bits. 
  * [OpcodeExecution]: Opcode and instruction description for execution control instructions.
  * [OpcodeDataMovement]: Opcode and instruction description for data movement instructions.
  * [OpcodeFloat]: Opcode and instruction description for floating point number operation instructions.
  * [OpcodeInteger]: Opcode and instruction description for integer operation instructions.

----
== Stage 2, Microbenchmarking ==
Currently no documentation has been written for this stage yet.